configuration/configuring-logging.rst, before:

Configuring logging
===================

Logging plays an important role in background processing, where work is performed behind the scenes. :doc:`Dashboard UI <using-dashboard>` can greatly help to reveal problems with user code, background jobs themselves. But it works by querying the job storage and requires the information is properly written first, before displaying it.

Even if Hangfire itself doesn't contain any errors, there may be connectivity issues, network blips, problems with the storage instance, different timeout issues and so on. And without logging it's very hard to diagnose those problems and understand what to do – exceptions are thrown in background and may get unnoticed.

Logging subsystem in Hangfire is abstracted to allow you to integrate it with any infrastructure. Also, you don't need to configure logging if your application doesn't create any background processing servers – client methods don't log anything, they just throw exceptions on errors.

.NET Core and ASP.NET Core
--------------------------

`Hangfire.NetCore <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hangfire.NetCore/>`_ and `Hangfire.AspNetCore <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hangfire.AspNetCore/>`_ packages provide the simplest way to integrate Hangfire into modern .NET Core applications. It delegates the logging implementation to the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging>`_ package, so the only required method to call is the ``AddHangfire`` method:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :caption: Startup.cs

   public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
   {
       // ...
       services.AddHangfire(config => config.UseXXXStorage());
   }

You can also change the minimal logging level for background processing servers to capture lifetime events like "starting" and "stopping" ones. These events are very important to debug cases when background processing isn't working, because all the processing servers are stopped.

.. code-block:: json
   :emphasize-lines: 5
   :caption: appsettings.json

   {
     "Logging": {
       "LogLevel": {
         "Default": "Warning",
         "Hangfire": "Information"
       }
     }
   }



.NET Framework
---------------

Starting from Hangfire 1.3.0, you are **not required to do anything**, if your application already uses one of the following libraries through the reflection (so that Hangfire itself does not depend on any of them). Logging implementation is **automatically chosen** by checking for the presence of corresponding types in the order shown below.

1. `Serilog <http://serilog.net/>`_ 
2. `NLog <http://nlog-project.org/>`_
3. `Log4Net <https://logging.apache.org/log4net/>`_
4. `EntLib Logging <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff647183.aspx>`_
5. `Loupe <http://www.gibraltarsoftware.com/Loupe>`_
6. `Elmah <https://code.google.com/p/elmah/>`_

If you want to log Hangfire events and have no logging library installed, please choose one of the above and refer to its documentation.

Console logger
---------------

For console applications and sandbox installations, there is the ``ColouredConsoleLogProvider`` class. You can start to use it by doing the following:

.. code-block:: csharp

   GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.UseColouredConsoleLogProvider();

Using a custom logger
-----------------------

It is very simple to add a custom logger implementation.  If your application uses another logging library that is not listed above, you only need to implement the following interfaces:

.. code-block:: csharp

   using Hangfire.Logging;

   public class CustomLogger : ILog
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public bool Log(LogLevel logLevel, Func<string> messageFunc, Exception exception = null)
       {
           if (messageFunc == null)
           {
               // Before calling a method with an actual message, LogLib first probes
               // whether the corresponding log level is enabled by passing a `null`
               // messageFunc instance.
               return logLevel > LogLevel.Info;
           }

           // Writing a message somewhere, make sure you also include the exception parameter,
           // because it usually contain valuable information, but it can be `null` for regular
           // messages.
           Console.WriteLine(String.Format("{0}: {1} {2} {3}", logLevel, Name, messageFunc(), exception));

           // Telling LibLog the message was successfully logged.
           return true;
       }
   }

   public class CustomLogProvider : ILogProvider
   {
       public ILog GetLogger(string name)
       {
           // Logger name usually contains the full name of a type that uses it,
           // e.g. "Hangfire.Server.RecurringJobScheduler". It's used to know the
           // context of this or that message and for filtering purposes.
           return new CustomLogger { Name = name };
       }
   }

After implementing the interfaces above, call the following method:

.. code-block:: csharp

    GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.UseLogProvider(new CustomLogProvider());

Log level description
----------------------

* **Trace** – for debugging Hangfire itself.
* **Debug** – to know why background processing does not work for you.
* **Info**  – to see that everything is working as expected: *Hangfire was started or stopped*, *Hangfire components performed useful work*. This is the **recommended** level to log.
* **Warn**  – to know learn about potential problems early: *performance failed, but automatic retry attempt will be made*, *thread abort exceptions*.
* **Error** – to know about problems that may lead to temporary background processing disruptions or problems you should know about: *performance failed, you need either to retry or delete a job manually*, *storage connectivity errors, automatic retry attempt will be made*.
* **Fatal** – to know that background job processing does not work partly or entirely, and requires manual intervention: *storage connectivity errors, retry attempts exceeded*, *different internal issues, such as OutOfMemoryException and so on*.

Commit message:

More details for the "Configuring logging" article

configuration/configuring-logging.rst, after:

Configuring logging
===================

Logging plays an important role in background processing, where work is performed behind the scenes. :doc:`Dashboard UI <using-dashboard>` can greatly help to reveal problems with user code, background jobs themselves. But it works by querying the job storage and requires the information is properly written first, before displaying it.

Even if Hangfire itself doesn't contain any errors, there may be connectivity issues, network blips, problems with the storage instance, different timeout issues and so on. And without logging it's very hard to diagnose those problems and understand what to do – exceptions are thrown in background and may get unnoticed.

Logging subsystem in Hangfire is abstracted to allow you to integrate it with any infrastructure. Also, you don't need to configure logging if your application doesn't create any background processing servers – client methods don't log anything, they just throw exceptions on errors.

.NET Core and ASP.NET Core
--------------------------

`Hangfire.NetCore <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hangfire.NetCore/>`_ and `Hangfire.AspNetCore <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hangfire.AspNetCore/>`_ packages provide the simplest way to integrate Hangfire into modern .NET Core applications. It delegates the logging implementation to the `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.Logging>`_ package, so the only required method to call is the ``AddHangfire`` method:

.. code-block:: csharp
   :caption: Startup.cs

   public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
   {
       // ...
       services.AddHangfire(config => config.UseXXXStorage());
   }

You can also change the minimal logging level for background processing servers to capture lifetime events like "server is starting" and "server is stopping" ones. These events are very important to debug cases when background processing isn't working, because all the processing servers are inactive.

.. code-block:: json
   :emphasize-lines: 5
   :caption: appsettings.json

   {
     "Logging": {
       "LogLevel": {
         "Default": "Warning",
         "Hangfire": "Information"
       }
     }
   }



.NET Framework
---------------

If your application uses one of the following libraries, no manual action is required in the most cases. Hangfire knows about these loggers and uses reflection to determine the first available one (in the order defined below) and to call the corresponding methods when logging. And since reflection is used, there are no unnecessary package or assembly references.

1. `Serilog <https://serilog.net/>`_ 
2. `NLog <https://nlog-project.org/>`_
3. `Log4Net <https://logging.apache.org/log4net/>`_
4. `EntLib Logging <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff647183.aspx>`_
5. `Loupe <http://www.gibraltarsoftware.com/Loupe>`_
6. `Elmah <https://elmah.github.io/>`_

Automatic wiring works correctly when your project references only a single logging package. Also, due to breaking changes (rare enough in the packages above), it's possible that wiring doesn't succeed. And to explicitly tell Hangfire what package to use to avoid the ambiguity, you can call one of the following methods (last invocation wins).

.. code-block:: csharp

   GlobalConfiguration.Configuration
       .UseSerilogLogProvider()
       .UseNLogLogProvider()
       .UseLog4NetLogProvider()
       .UseEntLibLogProvider()
       .UseLoupeLogProvider()
       .UseElmahLogProvider();

If your project doesn't have the required references when calling these methods, you may get a run-time exception.

Of course if you don't have any logging package installed or didn't configure it properly, Hangfire will not log anything, falling back to the internal ``NoOpLogger`` class. So it's a great time to install one, for example `Serilog <https://github.com/serilog/serilog/wiki/Getting-Started>`_, as it's the most simple logging package to set up.

Console logger
---------------

For console applications and sandbox installations, there is the ``ColouredConsoleLogProvider`` class. You can start to use it by configuring it in the following way. But ensure you aren't using this logger in production environment, because it's very slow due to locking that's used to ensure the colors are correct.

.. code-block:: csharp

   GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.UseColouredConsoleLogProvider();

Using a custom logger
-----------------------

It is very simple to add a custom logger implementation.  If your application uses another logging library that is not listed above, you only need to implement the following interfaces:

.. code-block:: csharp

   using Hangfire.Logging;

   public class CustomLogger : ILog
   {
       public string Name { get; set; }

       public bool Log(LogLevel logLevel, Func<string> messageFunc, Exception exception = null)
       {
           if (messageFunc == null)
           {
               // Before calling a method with an actual message, LogLib first probes
               // whether the corresponding log level is enabled by passing a `null`
               // messageFunc instance.
               return logLevel > LogLevel.Info;
           }

           // Writing a message somewhere, make sure you also include the exception parameter,
           // because it usually contain valuable information, but it can be `null` for regular
           // messages.
           Console.WriteLine(String.Format("{0}: {1} {2} {3}", logLevel, Name, messageFunc(), exception));

           // Telling LibLog the message was successfully logged.
           return true;
       }
   }

   public class CustomLogProvider : ILogProvider
   {
       public ILog GetLogger(string name)
       {
           // Logger name usually contains the full name of a type that uses it,
           // e.g. "Hangfire.Server.RecurringJobScheduler". It's used to know the
           // context of this or that message and for filtering purposes.
           return new CustomLogger { Name = name };
       }
   }

After implementing the interfaces above, call the following method:

.. code-block:: csharp

    GlobalConfiguration.Configuration.UseLogProvider(new CustomLogProvider());

Log level description
----------------------

* **Trace** – for debugging Hangfire itself.
* **Debug** – to know why background processing does not work for you.
* **Info**  – to see that everything is working as expected: *Hangfire was started or stopped*, *Hangfire components performed useful work*. This is the **recommended** level to log.
* **Warn**  – to know learn about potential problems early: *performance failed, but automatic retry attempt will be made*, *thread abort exceptions*.
* **Error** – to know about problems that may lead to temporary background processing disruptions or problems you should know about: *performance failed, you need either to retry or delete a job manually*, *storage connectivity errors, automatic retry attempt will be made*.
* **Fatal** – to know that background job processing does not work partly or entirely, and requires manual intervention: *storage connectivity errors, retry attempts exceeded*, *different internal issues, such as OutOfMemoryException and so on*.
